


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 1







Self-Assessment Report (SAR) Format
## Undergraduate Engineering Programs
Graduate Attributes and Professional Competencies
Version 4.0 (GAPC V4.0)
(TIER-II Institution Programs)





NBCC Place, 4
th
## Floor East Tower, Bhisham Pitamah Marg,
## Pragati Vihar New Delhi 110003
## P: +91(11)24360620-22, 24360654
## Fax: +91(11) 24360682
E-mail: membersecretary@nbaind.org
Website: www.nbaind.org
(January 2025)


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 2


SAR Contents

## Serial Code &
Link to the
## Item
## Item

## Page No.

## PART A
## Institutional Information
## 03-07
## PART B
## Criteria Summary
## 08-08
## Program Level Criteria
## Criterion 1
Outcome-Based Curriculum
## 09-13
## Criterion 2
Outcome-Based Teaching Learning
## 14-14
## Criterion 3
Outcome-Based Assessment
## 15-17
## Criterion 4
## Students’ Performance
## 17-28
## Criterion 5
## Faculty Information
## 29-38
## Criterion 6
## Faculty Contributions
## 39-45
## Criterion 7
Facilities and Technical Support
## 46-47
## Criterion 8
## Continuous Improvement
## 48-48
## Institute Level Criteria
Criterion 9  Student Support and Governance 49-54
Annexure I Knowledge and Attitude Profile (WK) 55-55
Annexure II Program  Outcomes  (POs)  &  Program  Specific  Outcomes
(PSOs)
## 56-56
PART C Declaration by the Institution 57-57
Annexure-III: Allied Departments  58-62








## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 3

PART A: Institutional Information

- Name and Address of the Institution:

- Type of the Institution: (Tick the applicable choice)

Institute of National Importance

Deemed to be University

## University

## Autonomous

Non-Autonomous (Affiliated)

Any Other (Please specify*)

*Provide Details: ___________________________________________

## Note:
 In  case  of  Autonomous Institute/Deemed  University,  mention  the  year  of
grant of status by the authority. In case of autonomous institution, mention
also the duration of status.
 In  case  of  University  Constituent  Institution,  please  indicate  the  academic
autonomy status of the Institution as defined in 12
th
Plan guidelines of UGC.
Institute should apply for Tier 1 only when fully academically autonomous.


- Year of Establishment of the Institution:

- Ownership Status: (Tick the applicable choice)

## Central Government

## State Government

Grant-in-Aid

## Self-financing  Trust

Any Other (Please specify*)

*Provide Details: ____________________________________________

- Name and Address of the Affiliating University:



- Other Academic Institutions Run by Trust/Society/etc., if any:

Table No. A6: List of all Institutions running under the same trust/society.
S. N. Name of the Institution(s) Year of Establishment Programs of
## Study
## Location
## 1 .. .. .. ..
## ...


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 4

- Details of all the Programs being Offered by the Institution:

Table No. A7: Details of all the programs being offered by the Institution.
## S.
## N
## .
## Program
## Name
## Year
of
start
## Sanctio
ned
## Intake

## Increase/
decrease
in    intake,
if any
Year of
increase/
decrease
## AICTE/
## Approval
details
## Accreditat
ion
## Status*
No. of
times
program
accredite
d
## 1
## .

## ..
Add rows as needed
*Write applicable one:
 Applying first time
 Granted accreditation for 2/3 years for the period (specify period)
 Granted accreditation for 5/6 years for the period (specify period)
 Not accredited (specify visit dates, year).
 Withdrawn (specify visit dates, year)
 Not eligible for accreditation.
 Eligible but not applied.

- Programs to be Considered for Accreditation vide this Application:

Table No. A8.1: List of programs to be considered for accreditation.
## Cluster
## ID
Name of the Department  Name of the Program
## 1.

## ...

## Note:
 Keep   a   list   of   programs   applying   for   NBA   accreditation through this
application.

Table No. A8.2: Allied Department(s) to the Department of the programs
considered for accreditation as above.
## Cluster
## ID.
Name of the Department
(in table no. A8.1)
Name of allied Departments/Cluster
(for table no. A8.1)
## 1.

## ...

## Note:
 Keep  a  list  of  all  allied  departments/cluster  programs with  respect  to  table
## No. A8.1.
 See the Allied Departments/Cluster programs information in Annexure-III.


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 5


Example for Table No. A8.1: List of programs to be considered for accreditation.

Table No. A8.1: List of programs to be considered for accreditation.
## Cluster
## ID
Name of the Department  Name of the Program
## 1.
Computer Science and
## Engineering
BE (Computer Science and
## Engineering)
2 Electronics    and    Communication
## Engineering
BE (Electronics  and Communication
## Engineering)
3 Mechanical Engineering BE (Mechanical Engineering)
4    Electrical Engineering BE (Electrical Engineering)
5    Chemical Engineering BE (Chemical Engineering)

Example for Table  No.  A8.2: Allied  Department(s)  to  the Department  of  the  programs
considered for accreditation as above.

Table No. A8.2: Allied Department(s) to the Department of the programs
considered for accreditation as above.
## Cluster
## ID
Name   of   the   Department
(in table No. A8.1)
Name  of  allied  Departments/Cluster
(for table No. A8.1)
## 1
Computer Science and
## Engineering
## Information Technology
## 1
Computer Science and
## Engineering
Computer   Science   and   Engineering   &
## Business Systems
## 1
Computer Science and
## Engineering
Artificial Intelligence and Machine learning
2 Electronics  and  Communication
## Engineering
## Electronics & Telecommunication
## Engineering
2 Electronics  and  Communication
## Engineering
## Communication Engineering
3 Mechanical Engineering Industrial and Production Engineering
## 4 Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Control
4 Electrical Engineering Electrical and Power Engineering














## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 6


- Total Number of Faculty Members in Various Departments:

Table No. A9: No. of faculty members in various departments.













## S. N.












Name of the
## Department
Number of faculty members in the Department (UG
and PG)
CAY CAYm1 CAYm2
## No.

of Professors

## No.

of Associate
## Professors

## No.

of Assistant
## Professors

## Total

faculty
members


## No.

of Professors

## No.

of Associate
## Professors

## No.

of Assistant
## Professors

Total faculty members

## No.

of Professors

## No.

of Associate
## Professors

## No.

of Assistant
## Professors

Total faculty members

## 1

## ...

## Note:
All  the  faculty  whether regular  or  contractual  (except  part-time  or  hourly
based),  will  be  considered. All  regular  faculty  members  shall  meet  the  AICTE
qualifications and experience requirements.
The contractual faculty appointed with any terminology whatsoever,  who have
taught for  2  consecutive  semesters  with  or  without  break  between  the  2
semesters   in   corresponding   academic   year   on   full-time   basis   shall   be
considered for the purpose of calculation in the faculty student ratio. However,
following will be ensured in case of contractual faculty:
- Shall have the AICTE prescribed qualifications and experience.
- Shall  be  appointed  on  full  time  basis  and  worked  for  consecutive  two
semesters  with  or  without  break  between  the  2  semesters  during  the
particular academic year under consideration.
- Should  have  gone  through  an  appropriate  process  of  selection  and  the
records of the same shall be made available to the visiting team during NBA
visit.
A. Faculty members in the Department who do not have teaching, or practical
loads, will not be counted.
B. Director/ Principal/ Dean/ other academic/administrative posts, who has
teaching/ practical load in the Department will be counted.
C. Visiting faculty/adjunct faculty, who are working on hourly based faculty will
not be counted.
CAY=Current Academic Year
CAYm1= Current Academic Year Minus1= Current Assessment Year
CAYm2= Current Academic Year Minus2=Current Assessment Year Minus 1




## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 7

- Total Number of Engineering Students in Various Departments:

Table No. A.10: No. of engineering students in various departments.
S. N. Name of the
## Department
Number  of  students  in the Department (UG
and PG)
CAY CAYm1 CAYm2
## 1
## ....
## Note:
In  case  the  institution  is  running  programs  other  than  engineering  programs
(UG and PG), a separate table giving similar details is to be included.
- Vision of the Institution:


- Mission of the Institution:

- Contact Information of the Head of the Institution and NBA Coordinator:

A. Head of the Institution

##  Name:

##  Designation:

##  Mobile Number:

 Email id:

B. NBA Coordinator:

##  Name:

##  Designation:

##  Mobile Number:

 Email id:













## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 8

PART B: Criteria Summary


Name of the Program:  ____________________________________

Title of the Degree:  ______________________________________

Criteria No. Name of the Criteria  Marks/ Weightage
## Program Level Criteria
1 Outcome-Based Curriculum  120
2 Outcome-Based Teaching Learning 120
3 Outcome-Based Assessment 120
## 4 Students’ Performance 120
## 5 Faculty Information 100
## 6 Faculty Contributions 120
7 Facilities and Technical Support 100
## 8 Continuous Improvement 80
## Institution Level Criteria
9 Student Support and Governance  120
Total Marks/Weights  1,000











## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 9

PART B: Program Level Criteria
## Criterion 1: Outcome-based Curriculum (120)

1.1. Vision, Mission and Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) (40)

(Provide details of vision and mission and program educational objectives.)

1.1.1. State the Vision and Mission of the Institute and the Department (05)

(Vision  statement  typically  indicates  aspirations  and  Mission  statement  states  the
broad approach to achieve aspirations.)

1.1.2.  State PEOs of the Program (05)

(State the PEOs (3 to 5) of program seeking accreditation.)

1.1.3.  Process of Defining Vision, Mission and PEOs (15)

(Articulate the process involved in defining the Vision and Mission of the department
and PEOs of the program.)

1.1.4. Dissemination of Vision, Mission and PEOs (05)

(Describe where (websites, curricula, posters etc.) the Vision, Mission and PEOs are
published  and  detail  the  process  which  ensures  awareness  among  internal  and
external stakeholders with effective process implementation.

Internal stakeholders may include Management, Governing Board Members, faculty,
support  staff,  students etc.  and  external  stakeholders  may  include  employers,
industry, alumni, funding agencies, etc.)

1.1.5. Mapping of PEOs with Mission (10)

(Generate  a  Mission  of the  Department–PEOs  matrix  with justification  and  rationale
of the mapping.)

Table No.1.1.5.1: Mapping of PEOs with mission.
PEO Statements M
## 1
## M
## 2
## .... M
n

## PEO1:
## PEO2:
## PEON:

## Note:
##  M
## 1
## ,  M
## 2
## .  .  .  M
n
are  distinct  elements  of mission  statement.  Enter  correlation
levels as Low (1), Medium (2) and High (3). If there is no correlation, put “-”







## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 10

1.2. Curriculum Structure and Features (30)

## 1.2.1. Program Curriculum Structure (05)

(Provide details of courses in terms of teaching and learning scheme and number of
credits in the Program curriculum.)

Table No.1.2.1.1: Details of various courses presented in terms of teaching and learning
scheme.
## Course
## Code






## Course
## Titles






## Teaching & Learning Scheme
## Classroom
## Instruction
## (CI)
(in hours per
semester)
## Lab
## Instruction
## (LI)
(in hours
per
semester)
## Term Work
(TW) and Self
Learning (SL)
## (TW+ SL)
(in hours per
semester)
Total no.
of Hours
per
semester
## Total
## Credits
## (C)*
(Total
## Hours/30
## )
## L T P SL
## 101 C++ 42 14 28 36    120  120/30=4
## 102
## Chemistry
## Laboratory
## 42 18      60  60/30=2
## ...

*This is as per the new National Credit Framework, which accounts for 30 hrs. of learning as
equivalent  to  1  credit.  Those  universities  which  are  still  following  the  LTP  will  transform
them into no. of hours and fill in the above table.

## Legend:
CI: Classroom Instruction (Includes different instructional/implementation strategies
i.e. Lecture (L), Tutorial (T), Case method, Demonstrations, Video demonstration,
Problem based learning etc. to deliver theoretical concepts)
LI: Laboratory Instruction (Includes experiments/practical performances  /problem-
based experiences in laboratory, workshop, field or other locations using different
instructional/Implementation strategies)
TW: Term  work  (includes  assignments,  seminars,  micro  projects,  industrial  visits,  any
other student activities etc.)
SL: Self   Learning, MOOCs,   spoken   tutorials,   online   educational   resources   etc.(If
Provided in curriculum structure.)

1.2.2. Components of Program Curriculum (05)

(Provide details of the program curriculum components approved by the university in
the last year graduate (LYG) batch as a sample program curriculum.)

Table No.1.2.2.1: Program curriculum grouping based on curriculum components.
## Curriculum
## Component
## Curriculum  Content
(%  of  total  number
of credits of the
program)
Total   number   of
contact hours
Total number of
credits
## Basic Sciences


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 11

## Basic Engineering
Humanities and Social
## Sciences

Program Core/Major/
## Minor

## Program Electives
Open Electives/Multi-
## Disciplinary

## Project(s)
Internships/Seminars
Any other     (Please
specify)-
## A. Ability
enhancement
## B. Skill Enhancement
C. Value add process
D. etc.

Total number of credits:
Add more rows, if required

1.2.3.  State  the  Process  Used  to  Identify Extent  of  Compliance  of  the  University
Curriculum   for   Attaining   the   Program   Outcomes   and   Program   Specific
Outcomes as mentioned in Annexure II. Also Mention the Identified Curricular
Gaps, if any (10)

(Describe  the  process  that  periodically  documents  and demonstrates  how  the
program curriculum is evolved, or provide the process of gap analysis, whichever is
applicable, considering the Program Outcomes (POs) as mentioned in Annexure-II.)

Note: In  case  all  POs  are  being  demonstrably  met  through  University curriculum
then 1.2.4 will not be applicable and the weightage of 1.2.3 will be 20.

1.2.4. State   the Delivery  Details  of  the  Content  beyond  the  Syllabus  for  the
Attainment of Program Outcomes and Program Specific Outcomes (10)

(Provide   details   of   the   value-added   courses,   workshops,   seminars,   hands-on
experiences,  etc.,  organized  to  address  the  gaps  identified in  1.2.2  in  the  following
format.).

Table No.1.2.4.1: Details of events organized to cover content beyond the syllabus
## S.
## N.
PO/PSO as
gap Identified
Name     of
the event
Date of
event
Resource  person,
organization
Relevance to
POs, PSOs
CAYm1
## 1
## N
CAYm2
## 1


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 12

## N
CAYm3
## 1
## N

1.3.  PO, PSO and their Mapping with Courses (15)

1.3.1. POs and PSOs (05)

(Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs) are defined by the program, with up to 3 PSOs
specified.)

List of POs as Defined by NBA in Annexure II.

List of PSOs (up to 3)

(Provide details of the PSOs for the program currently seeking accreditation.)


1.3.2. Mapping between the Courses and POs/PSOs (10)

(Mention the courses relevant to the POs/PSOs.)

Table No.1.3.2: Mapping between courses with POs/PSOs.
PO Number   List of Courses
## PO1:
## PO2:
## PON:
Add more rows for PSOs.

1.4. Course Outcomes and Course Articulation Matrix (25)

1.4.1. Course Outcome (Semester Wise) (15)

(Provide course  outcomes  (COs)  for  two  core  courses  per  semester  from 1-8
semesters as a sample. The maximum number of outcomes for a course is expected
to  be  around  6. COs  should  reflect  on  the  measurable  outcomes  towards  attaining
POs and PSOs).
Table No. 1.4.1.1: Course outcomes.
## Semester No:
## Course Title:  Course Code:
## Course Outcome No. Course Outcome Statement









## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 13

## 1.4.2. Course Articulation Matrix (10)

(Provide  course  articulation  matrices  for  two  core  courses  per  semester  from 1-8
semesters  which  have  been  provided  in the section  1.4.1.  Select courses to
demonstrate the mapping/correlation with POs and PSOs.)

Table No.1.4.2.1: Course articulation matrix.

## Course Name:                                                     Course Code:
## Course
## Outcomes
(COs)
code
## &
## Statement
Program Outcomes (POs) Program
## Specific
## Outcomes
(PSOs)
## PO-
## 1
## PO
## -2
## PO
## -3
## PO-
## 4
## PO-
## 5
## PO
## -6
## PO
## -7
## PO
## -8
## PO
## -9
## PO-
## 10
## PO-
## 11
## PSO-
## 1
## PSO-
## 2
## CO-1

## CO-2

## CO-3

## CO-4

## CO-5

Add more columns for PSOs if any

## Note:

 Enter correlation levels 1, 2 or 3 as defined below:
 1: Slight (Low)
 2: Moderate (Medium)
 3: Substantial (High),
 If there is no correlation, put “-”

## 1.5.  Program Articulation Matrix (10)

Table No.1.5.1: Program articulation matrix
## Course
## Code
## Course
## Name
## PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6 PO7 PO8 PO9 PO10 PO11 PSO
## PSO-
## 1
## PSO-
## 2
## C101
## C202

## C303

## ....

## C4...



Add more columns for PSOs if any.




## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 14

## Criterion 2: Outcome Based Teaching Learning (120)

2.1.  Describe Processes Followed to Ensure Quality of Teaching & Learning (20)

(Processes  may  include  adherence  to  academic  calendar  and  instruction  methods
using  pedagogical  initiatives  such  as  real-world  examples,  collaborative  learning,
quality  of  laboratory  experience  with  regard  to  conducting  experiments,  recording
observations, analysis of data etc. encouraging fast learners, assisting slow learners
etc. The implementation details and impact analysis need to be documented.)

2.2. Quality of Student Capstone Project (25)

(Quality  of the  capstone/major  project  is  measured  in  terms  of  consideration  to
factors including, but not limited to, environment, sustainability, safety, ethics, cost,
type (application, product, research, review etc.) and standards. Processes related to
project   identification,   allotment,   continuous   monitoring,   evaluation   including
demonstration of working prototypes and enhancing the relevance of projects.

Mention implementation details including details of POs and PSOs addressed through
the projects with justification.)

2.3. Internship/Industrial Training (10)

(Describe process, duration, POs/PSOs addressed.)

2.4.  Seminar and Mini/Micro Projects (10)

(Describe process, POs/PSOs addressed.)

2.5.  Case Studies and Real-Life Examples (10)

(Type and complexity, POs/PSOs addressed.)

2.6. SWAYAM/NPTEL/MOOC/Self Learning (10)

(Number of students registered, certification and POs/PSOs addressed.)

2.7.  Solving Complex  Engineering  Problems  Incorporating Sustainability  Goals
## (20)

(Provide  details  of  core  courses  (Project based learning, problem-based learning),
mini projects, integrated design projects, capstone projects, hackathon or any other
activity-based  learning  towards  solving  complex  engineering  problems  targeting
relevant SDGs.)

2.8.   Steps Taken for Enhancing Industry Institute Partnerships (15)

(Provide  details  of  partial  delivery  of  courses,  industry  supported  labs,  industry
offered short-term programs/training etc.)


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 15

## Criterion 3: Outcome Based Assessment (120)

3.1. Evaluation  of  Continuous  Assessment:  Unit  Tests,  Mid-Term, Assignments,
etc. (10)

(Describe  the  process  of  evaluation  followed  during  continuous  assessment  to
maintain  quality  of  assessment;  constructive  alignment  of  questions  with  COs  and
hence POs/ PSOs. Details to be kept in course files for evaluation.)

3.2.  Evaluation of Semester End Exam (SEE) Question Paper (10)

(Describe the process of setting of SEE papers & their evaluation to maintain quality
of assessment, constructive alignment of questions with COs and POs/PSOs. Details
to be kept in course files for evaluation.)

3.3.   Evaluation of Laboratory Work and Workshop (Continuous and SEE) (10)

(Provide  details  of rubrics  used  to  assess learning in  laboratories  and  workshops
linking  with  COs  and  POs/PSOs  targeted. Evidence  of  student  assessments  using
rubrics should be kept in the course file for evaluation.)

3.4. Evaluation of Industrial Training/ Internship (Continuous and SEE) (10)

(Provide details of rubrics used to assess learning in internships/industrial trainings
linking POs/PSOs targeted for attainment. Evidence of student assessments using
rubrics should be kept in the course file for evaluation.)

3.5. Evaluation of Projects (20)

(Provide  details  of rubrics  used  to  assess learning in  projects  linking  POs/PSOs
targeted  for  attainment. Evidence  of  student  assessments  using  rubrics  should  be
kept in the course file for evaluation.)

3.6. Evidence of Addressing Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (10)
(Provide  details  of  student  work  carried  out  to  meet  sustainable  development goals
such as research work, project work, student activities etc. Evidence in the form of a
portfolio should be made available during the visit.)

3.7. Attainment of Course Outcomes (25)

3.7.1. Describe  the  Assessment  Tools  and  Processes  Used  to Gather  the  Data  for
the Evaluation of Course Outcome (05)

(Describe  different  assessment  tools  (semester  end  examinations,  mid-semester
tests,  laboratory examinations,  student  portfolios  etc.,)  to  measure  the  student
learning and hence attainment of course outcomes.)

3.7.2. Record  the  Attainment  of  Course  Outcomes  of  all  Courses  with Respect  to
## Set Attainment Levels (20)

(Program shall set course outcome attainment levels for each course. Measuring CO
attainment  through  Continuous  Internal  Examinations  (CIE)  and  Semester  End
Examination (SEE) needs to be detailed.



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 16

Target  may  be  stated  in  terms  of  percentage  of  students  getting  more  than  class
average marks  or  set  by  the  program  in  each  of  the  associated  COs  in  the
assessment  instruments  (midterm  tests,  assignments,  mini  projects,  reports  and
presentations etc. as mapped with the COs.))

3.8. Attainment of Program Outcomes and Program Specific Outcomes (25)

(The   attainment   of   POs   and   PSOs   by   direct   assessment   based   on   student
performance and indirect assessment based on surveys are to be presented through
program level Course-PO and PSO matrices as indicated.)

PO and PSO Attainment:

Table No. 3.8.1: PO and PSO attainment value using direct assessment tools.
Course code  PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6 PO7 PO8 PO9 PO10 PO11
## C101
## C102
## ...
## C409
## Direct
## Attainment

Add more columns as needed for PSOs if any.

## Note:
 C101, C102 are indicative courses in the first year. Similarly, C409 is final year
course.  First  numeric  digit  indicates  year  of  study  and  remaining  two  digits
indicate course nos. in the respective year of study.
 Direct  attainment  of  a  PO/PSO  is determined  by  taking  average  across  all
courses addressing that PO/PSO.

Table No. 3.8.2: PO and PSO attainment value using indirect assessment tools.
Name  of  the
## Survey
## PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6 PO7 PO8 PO9 PO10 PO11
## Survey 1
## Survey 2
## Survey 3
## .....
## Indirect
## Attainment

Add more columns as needed for PSOs if any.

## Note:
 Mention the type of survey conducted and the location of its source.
 Indirect  attainment  level  of  a  PO/PSO  is  determined  based  on  the  student  exit
surveys, employer surveys, etc.

Table No. 3.8.3: Overall PO and PSO attainment value
Assessment  PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6 PO7 PO8 PO9 PO10 PO11
## Direct Attainment


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 17

## Indirect Attainment
## Overall Attainment
Add more columns as needed for PSOs if any.


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 18

## Criterion 4: Students’ Performance (120)

Table No. 4A: Admission details for the program excluding those admitted through multiple entry and exit points.
Item   (Information   is   to   be
provided   cumulatively   for   all
the shifts with explicit
headings, wherever applicable)
## CAY



CAYm1



CAYm2



CAYm3 CAYm4
## (LYG)
CAYm5
(LYGm1)
CAYm6
(LYGm2)
N=    Sanctioned    intake    of    the
program
(as    per    AICTE
/Competent authority)



N1=       Total   no.   of   students
admitted   in   the   1
st
year
minus  the  no.  of  students,
who     migrated     to     other
programs/   institutions   plus
no. of students, who
migrated to this program


N2=  Number  of  students  admitted
in 2
nd
year in the same batch
via   lateral   entry   including
leftover seats


N3= Separate division if any


N4= Total no. of students admitted
in    the    1
st
year    via    all
supernumerary quotas


Total  number  of  students  admitted
in  the  program  (N1  +  N2  +
N3  +  N4) - excluding  those
admitted    through    multiple
entry and exit points.


CAY= Current Academic Year.
CAYm1= Current Academic Year Minus 1= Current Assessment Year (AY).
CAYm2= Current Academic Year Minus 2= Current Assessment Year Minus 1 (AYM1).
LYG= Last Year Graduate.
LYGm1= Last Year Graduate Minus 1.
LYGm2= Last Year Graduate Minus 2.


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 19

Example for Table No.4A: Admission details for the program excluding those admitted through multiple entry and exit points.
Item  (Information  is  to  be  provided  cumulatively
for  all  the  shifts  with  explicit  headings,  wherever
applicable)
## CAY
## 2024-
## 25
CAYm1
## 2023-
## 24
CAYm2
## 2022-
## 23
CAYm3
## 2021-
## 22
CAYm4
## (LYG)
## 2020-
## 21
CAYm5
(LYGm1)
## 2019-20
CAYm6
(LYGm2)
## 2018-19
N=  Sanctioned  intake  of  the  program
(as  per  AICTE
/Competent authority)

## 120 120 120 120 120 120 120
N1=  Total no. of students admitted in the 1
st
year minus
the   no.   of   students,   who   migrated   to   other
programs/ institutions  plus  no.  of  students,  who
migrated to this program
## 120 120 116 120 120 120 120
N2= Number of students admitted in 2
nd
year in the same
batch via lateral entry including leftover seats
## 00 11 09 10 11 10 11
N3= Separate division if any 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
N4= Total no. of students admitted in the 1
st
year via all
supernumerary quotas
## 00 01 00 00 00 00 00
Total number of students admitted in the program (N1 +
N2  +  N3  +  N4) - excluding  those  admitted  through
multiple entry and exit points.
## 120 132 125 130 131 130 131

Table No. 4B: Admission details for the program through multiple entry and exit points.
Item (No.   of   students   admitted/exited   through
multiple entry and exit points) in the respective batch
## CAY

CAYm1

CAYm2

CAYm3 CAYm4
## (LYG)
CAYm5
(LYGm1)
CAYm6
(LYGm2)


N5(Multiple entry)

## N5=N52+N53+N54
N52= No. of students admitted in 2
nd

year via multiple entry and exit points
in same batch

N53=  No.  of  students admitted in 3
rd

year via multiple entry and exit points
in same batch

N54=  No. of students admitted in 4
th

year via multiple entry and exit points
in same batch

## N5=N52+N53+N54


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 20


N6 (Multiple exit)

## N6=N61+N62+N63
N61=  No.  of  students  exits  after  1
st

year via multiple entry and exit points
in same batch

N62=  No.  of  students  exit after  2
nd

year via multiple entry and exit points

N63=  No.  of  students  exit after  3
rd

year via multiple entry and exit points
in same batch

## N6=N61+N62+N63

Example for Table No.4B: Admission details for the program through multiple entry and exit points.
Item (No.   of   students   admitted/exited   through
multiple  entry  and  exit  points)  in  the  respective
batch
## CAY
## 2024-
## 25
CAYm1
## 2023-
## 24
CAYm2
## 2022-
## 23
CAYm3
## 2021-
## 22
CAYm4
## (LYG)
## 2020-
## 21
CAYm5
(LYGm1)
## 2019-
## 20
CAYm6
(LYGm2)
## 2018-
## 19


N5(Multiple entry)

## N5=N52+N53+N54
N52= No. of students admitted in 2
nd

year via   multiple   entry   and   exit
points in same batch
0(NA) 2 1  2  1 1  2 (a)
N53= No. of students admitted in 3
rd

year via   multiple   entry   and   exit
points in same batch
0(NA) 0(NA) 0  0 0  0  1 (b)
N54= No. of students admitted in 4
th

year via   multiple   entry   and   exit
points in same batch
0(NA) 0(NA) 0(NA) 0 0  0 1 (c)
## N5=N52+N53+N54 0(NA) 2 1 2 1 1 4

N6 (Multiple exit)

## N6=N61+N62+N63
N61=  No.  of  students  exits  after  1
st

year via   multiple   entry   and   exit
points in same batch
0(NA) 1  1 1 0 1 1 (d)
N62=  No.  of  students  exit after  2
nd

year via   multiple   entry   and   exit
points
0(NA) 0(NA) 0 0 0 0  1(e)
N63=  No.  of students  exit after  3
rd

year via   multiple   entry   and   exit
points in same batch
0(NA) 0(NA) 0(NA) 0 0  0 0 (f)
## N6=N61+N62+N63 0(NA) 1 1 1 0 1 2



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 21

- Example: Multiple entry for Batch LYG m2 (2017-18):
 No. of students admitted through multiple entry: 4
 Breakdown: 2(a) + 1(b) + 1(c), where:
o a = no. of students admitted in 2
nd
year
o b = no. of students admitted in 3
rd
year
o c = no. of students admitted in 4
th
year
 Therefore, for batch LYG m2 (2017-18):
o 2 students were admitted in the 2
nd
year.
o 1 student was admitted each in the 3
rd
and 4
th
years.

- Example: Multiple exit for Batch LYG m2 (2017-18):
 No. of students exiting/dropped through multiple exit: 2
 Breakdown: 1(d) + 1(e) + 0(f)), where:
o d = no. of students exiting after 1
st
year
o e = no. of students exiting after 2
nd
year
o f = no. of students exiting after 3
rd
year
 Therefore, for batch LYG m2 (2017-18):
o 1 student exited after the 1
st
year.
o 1 student exited after the 2
nd
year.
o No students exited after the 3
rd
year.

Table No. 4C: No. of students graduated within the stipulated period of the program.
Year of
entry
Total no. of students (N1 +
N2   +   N3+   N4+N5-N6 as
defined above)
Number of students who have successfully graduated in the stipulated period of
study [Total of with Backlogs+ without Backlogs]
I Year II Year III Year IV Year
## CAY
CAYm1
CAYm2
CAYm3
CAYm4
## (LYG)

CAYm5
(LYGm1)

CAYm6
(LYGm2)



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 22

Example for Table No.4C: No. of students graduated within the stipulated period of the program.
Year of
entry
Total no. of students (N1 +
N2   +   N3+   N4+N5-N6 as
defined above)
Number of students who have successfully graduated in the stipulated period of study
[Total of with Backlogs+ without Backlogs]
I Year II Year III Year IV Year
## 2024-25
## CAY
## 120 (120+0+0+0+0(NA)-
## 0(NA)

## 2023-24
CAYm1
## 133 (120+11+0+1+2-1) 128


## 2022-23
CAYm2
## 125 (116+9+0+0+1-1) 123

## 121
## (115+6+0+0+1-
## 1)

## 2021-22
CAYm3
## 131 (120+10+0+0+2-1) 125

## 123
## (112+10+0+0+2-
## 1)
## 121
## (111+10+0+0+0-
## 0)

## 2020-21
CAYm4
## (LYG)
## 132 (120+11+0+0+1-0) 127

## 125
## (114+10+0+0+1-
## 0)
## 124
## (114+10+0+0+0-
## 0)
## 123
## (113+10+0+0+0-
## 0)
## 2019-20
CAYm5
(LYGm1)
## 130 (120+10+0+0+1-1) 125

## 123
## (113+10+0+0+1-
## 1)
## 122
## (112+10+0+0+0-
## 0)
## 121
## (112+9+0+0+0-
## 0)
## 2018-19
CAYm6
(LYGm2)
## 133 (120+11+0+0+4-2) 129

## 127
## (115+11+0+0+2-
## 1)
## 126
## (115+11+0+0+1-
## 1)
## 124
## (115+00+0+0-1)




## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 23

4.1. Enrolment Ratio in the First Year (20)

ER Points =Average ER* 100

Table No. 4.1.1: Student enrolment ratio in the 1
st
year.
## Item
(Students  enrolled  in  the  First  Year  on average
over 3 academic years (CAY, CAYm1, and CAYm2))

## CAY

CAYm1

CAYm2

N= Sanctioned  intake of the  program in  the
## 1
st
year  (as  per
AICTE/Competent authority)


N1= Total no. of students admitted in the 1
st
year minus the
no.  of  students,  who  migrated  to  other programs/
institutions  plus  no.  of  students,  who  migrated  to  this
program

N4= Total  no.  of  students  admitted  in  the  1
st
year  via  all
supernumerary quotas

Enrolment Ratio (ER)= (N1+N4)/N ER_1 ER_2 ER_3
Average ER= (ER_1+ ER_2+ ER_3)/3

Example for Table No.4.1.1:  Student enrolment ratio in the 1
st
year.
## Item
(Students  enrolled  in  the  First  Year  on  average
over 3 academic years (CAY, CAYm1, and CAYm2))

## CAY
## 2024-
## 25
CAYm1
## 2023-
## 24
CAYm2
## 2022-
## 23
N=  Sanctioned  intake of the program in  the
## 1
st
year (as  per
AICTE/Competent authority)

## 120 120 120
N1=  Total  no.  of  students  admitted  in  the  1
st
year  minus  the
no.  of  students,  who  migrated  to  other programs/
institutions  plus  no.  of  students,  who migrated  to  this
program
## 120 120 116
N4= Total  no.  of  students  admitted  in  the  1
st
year  via  all
supernumerary quotas
## 00 01 00
Enrolment Ratio (ER)=(N1+N4)/N 100 100.83 96.67
Average ER = (ER_1+ ER_2+ ER_3)/3 99.17%

Table No. 4.1.2: The marks distribution for enrolment ratio in the 1
st
year.
## Item
(Students enrolled in the First Year on average over 3 academic years
(CAY, CAYm1, and CAYm2))

## Marks

>= 90% students enrolled in the First Year on average over 3 academic years (CAY,
CAYm1, and CAYm2)
## 20
>= 80% students enrolled in the First Year on average over 3 academic years (CAY,
CAYm1, and CAYm2)
## 17
>= 70% students enrolled in the First Year on average over 3 academic years (CAY,
CAYm1, and CAYm2)
## 14
>= 60% students enrolled in the First Year on average over 3 academic years (CAY,
CAYm1, and CAYm2)
## 11
>= 50% students enrolled in the First Year on average over 3 academic years (CAY,
CAYm1, and CAYm2)
## 08
>= 40% students enrolled in the First Year on average over 3 academic years (CAY,
CAYm1, and CAYm2)
## 05


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 24

4.2. Success Rate of the Students in the Stipulated Period of the Program (15)

Success  Rate  (SR)=(No.  of  students  who  graduated  from  the  program  in  the
stipulated  course  duration)/(No.  of  students  admitted  in  the  1
st
year  of  that batch
and  those  actually  admitted  in  the  2
nd
year  via  lateral  entry,  plus  the  number  of
students admitted through multiple entry (if any) and separate division if applicable,
minus the number of students who exited through multiple entry (if any).

Average SR = Mean of SR for the past three batches.

SR Points = 1.5*Average SR/10.

Table No.4.2.1: The success rate in the stipulated period of a program.
Item LYG  LYGm1  LYGm2
A*= (No.  of  students  admitted  in  the  1
st
year  of
that  batch  and  those  actually admitted  in  the
## 2
nd
year  via  lateral  entry,  plus  the  number  of
students  admitted  through  multiple  entry  (if
any)  and  separate  division if  applicable,  minus
the  number  of  students  who  exited  through
multiple entry (if any).

B=No.   of   students   who   graduated   from   the
program in the stipulated course duration

Success Rate (SR)= (B/A)*100
## SR_1 SR_2 SR_3
Average   SR   of   three   batches   ((SR_1+SR_2+
## SR_3)/3)


Note *: If the value of A in Table No. 4.2.1  is less than the sum of the sanctioned
intake (N) and the lateral entry including leftover seats (N2), then the value of A in
Table No. 4.2.1 should be the sum of the sanctioned intake (N) and the lateral entry
including leftover seats (N2).

4.3. Academic Performance of the First-Year Students of the Program (10)

Academic Performance = Average Academic Performance Index (API), where

API=((Mean of 1
st
Year Grade Point Average of all successful students on a 10-point
scale) or (Mean of the percentage of marks of all successful students in 1
st
year/10))
- (Number of successful students/number of students appeared in the examination)

Successful students are those who have proceeded to the 2
nd
year.

Table No.4.3.1: Academic Performance of the First-Year Students of the Program.
Academic Performance  CAYm1 CAYm2 CAYm3
X=  (Mean  of  1
st
year  grade  point  average  of  all  successful
students on a 10-point scale) or (Mean of the percentage
of marks of all successful students in 1
st
year/10)



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 25


4.4   Academic Performance of the Second Year Students of the Program (10)

Academic Performance = Average Academic Performance Index (API), where

API=((Mean of 2
nd
Year Grade Point Average of all successful students on a 10-point
scale) or (Mean of the percentage of marks of all successful students in 2
nd
## Year/10))
- (Number of successful students/number of students appeared in the examination).

Successful students are those who have proceeded to the 3
rd
year.

Table  No.4.4.1: Academic  Performance of the Second Year  Students  of  the
## Program.


4.5 Academic Performance of the Third Year Students of the Program (10)

Academic Performance = Average Academic Performance Index (API), where

API =((Mean of 3
rd
Year Grade Point Average of all successful students on a 10-point
scale) or (Mean of the percentage of marks of all successful students in 3
rd
## Year/10))
- (Number of successful students/number of students appeared in the examination).

Successful students are those who have proceeded to the 4
th
year.

Table No.4.5.1: Academic Performance of the Third Year Students of the Program
Y= Total no. of successful students

Z = Total no. of students appeared in the examination

## API = X* (Y/Z)
## API_1 API_2 API_3
Average API = ( API_1 +  API_2 +  API_3)/3

Academic Performance  CAYm1 CAYm2 CAYm3
X=  (Mean  of  2
nd
year  grade  point  average  of  all  successful
students on a 10-point scale) or (Mean of the percentage of
marks of all successful students in 2
rd
year/10)

Y= Total no. of successful students
Z =Total no. of students appeared in the examination
## API = X* (Y/Z) API_1 API_2 API_3
Average API = ( API_1 +  API_2 +  API_3)/3
Academic Performance  CAYm1 CAYm2 CAYm3
X=  (Mean  of  3
rd
year  grade  point  average  of  all  successful
students on a 10-point scale) or (Mean of the percentage
of marks of all successful students in 3
rd
year/10)



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 26


4.6 Placement, Higher Studies and Entrepreneurship (30)

Placement index points =0.3*Average Placement Index (P).

Table No. 4.6.1: Placement, higher studies, and entrepreneurship details.
## Item
## LYG

LYGm1 LYGm2
FS*=Total no. of final year students


X= No. of students placed
Y= No. of students admitted to higher studies
Z= No. of students taking up entrepreneurship
## X + Y + Z =
Placement Index (P) = (((X + Y + Z)/FS) * 100) P_1 P_2 P-3
Average placement index = (P_1 + P_2 + P_3)/3


Note *: If the value of FS in Table No. 4.6.1 is less than the sum of the sanctioned intake
(N) and the lateral entry including leftover seats (N2), then the value of FS in Table
No.  4.6.1  should  be the sum  of  the  sanctioned  intake  (N)  and  the  lateral  entry
including leftover seats (N2).

## 4.7 Professional Activities (25)

4.7.1 Professional    Societies/    Bodies,    Chapters,    Clubs,    and    Professional
## Engineering Events Organized (05)

(Provide a list of active professional societies/bodies, chapters, and clubs that exist
at  the  departmental/cluster  level  in  the  past  3  years,  and  also  provide  a  list  of
events organized by the professional societies, chapters, and clubs over the past 3
years.)

Table No. 4.7.1.1: List of active professional societies/bodies/chapters/clubs.
S.N. Name of the Professional Societies/Bodies, Chapters, Clubs
## 1.
## ..

Table No. 4.7.1.2: List of events/programs organized.
S.N. Name of the Professional Name    of National/ Date of
Y= Total no. of successful students

Z= Total no. of students appeared in the examination

## API = X* (Y/Z)
## AP_1 AP_2 AP_3
Average API = ( API_1 +  API_2 +  API_3)/3



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 27

Societies/Bodies/Chapters/
## Clubs
the Event  International level Event
CAYm1
## 1
## ...
CAYm2
## 1
## ..
CAYm3
## 1
## ..

4.7.2 Student’s Participations in Professional Events (10)

(Provide  details  of  students, who  have  participated  at  other  institutes  in  various
professional events, such as hackathons, codeathons, ideathons, etc., over the past
3 years.)

Table No. 4.7.2.1: List of students participated in professional events.
S.N. Name of the
## Student
Name of the
## Event
State /National/
International level
Date of
## Event
Name of
the award
if any
CAYm1
## 1
## ..
CAYm2
## 1
## ..
CAYm3
## 1
## ..

4.7.3 Publication of Journals, Magazines, Newsletters, etc. in the Department (05)

(Provide details   of   journals,   magazines,   newsletters,   etc.,   published   by   the
department, along with the names of the  editors, issue numbers, volume numbers,
and a list of students involved for the past 3 years.)

Table  No.  4.7.3.1: List of students  involved in publication  of journals,  magazines,  and
newsletters, etc. in the Department.
S.N. Name of the Name of Name of the No. of Hard copy/


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 28

## Journal,   Magazine,
## Newsletter
the Editor Student &
## Semester
Issues Soft copy
CAYm1
## 1
## ..
CAYm2
## 1
## ..
CAYm3
## 1
## ..

## 4.7.4 Student Publications (05)

(Provide details of student publications in journals, conferences, etc., for the past 3
years.)
Table No. 4.7.4.1: List of student publications.
S.N. Name of
the Paper
Name of
the
## Student &
## Semester
Name of
the
## Publisher
Name of the
## Journal/
## Conference,
etc.
## Volume
## No. &
## Issue
## No.
Name of
the Award
if any
CAYm1
## 1
## ..
CAYm2
## 1
## ..
CAYm3
## 1
## ..





## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 29

## Criterion 5: Faculty Information (100)
Table No. 5A: Faculty details
## S.N.

Name of the Faculty

PAN No.

APAAR faculty ID*(if any)

Highest degree

## University

Area of Specialization

Date of Joining in this Institution

Date  of  Joining  in  the  Department (in    case    of    transfer    from    one Department to another) if any

Experience    in    years    in    current institute

Designation  at  Time  Joining  in  this Institution

## Present Designation

The  date  on  which  Designated  as Professor/   Associat
e   Professor   if
any

Nature    of    Association    (Regular/ Contract/ Ad hoc)

If  contractual  mention  Full  time  or (Part time or hourly based)

Currently Associated (Y/N)

Date   of   Leaving   if   any   (In   case Currently Associated is “No”)


## 1
## ..
Note 1: Please provide details of the faculty in the Department and allied Departments, including cumulative information for all three academic years starting from
the  current  academic  year  (CAY)  in  the  specified  format.  Programs  such  as  MCA,  BCA, Diploma  (Engineering), and  other  non-engineering  programs
running in the Department or allied Departments need to have sufficient faculty members to support those programs. Note that these faculty members
should not be included in the above said Table no. 5A.
Note 2:  All  the  faculty  whether regular or  contractual  (except part-time  or  hourly based),  will  be  considered. All  regular  faculty  members  shall  meet  the AICTE
qualifications  and  experience  requirements. The  contractual  faculty  appointed  with  any terminology  whatsoever,  who  have  taught  for 2  consecutive
semesters  with  or  without  break  between  the  2  semesters  in  corresponding  academic  year  on  full-time  basis  shall  be  considered  for  the  purpose  of
calculation in the faculty student ratio. However, following will be ensured in case of contractual faculty
A. Shall have the AICTE prescribed qualifications and experience.
B. Shall be appointed on full time basis and worked for consecutive two semesters with or without break between the 2 semesters during the particular
academic year under consideration.
C. Should have gone through an appropriate process of selection and the records of the same shall be made available to the visiting team during NBA
visit.
## Note 3:
A. Faculty members in the Department who do not have teaching, or practical loads, will not be counted.
B. Director/ Principal/ Dean/ other academic/administrative posts, who has teaching/ practical load in the Department will be counted.
C. Visiting faculty/adjunct faculty, who are working on hourly based faculty will not be counted



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 30

## Note 4:

A. NBA decided to consider the Professor of Practice (PoP), Associate Professor of Practice (PoP), and Assistant Professor of Practice (PoP) as per the
qualifications  and  experience  prescribed  by  the  AICTE  for  accreditation  of  Engineering  programs.  e.g.  For  calculation  of  SFR, Faculty  Qualification,
Faculty  Cadre  Proportion,  Faculty  Retention  Ratio  and  Faculty  members  participation  in  STTPs/FDPs. The  maximum  number  of  faculty  members
engaged as Professor of Practice (PoP) with the required faculty strength (Cadre Ratio) as per AICTE norm would be 20% wherein 5% is exclusively
reserved for Women Professor of Practice (PoP), Associate /Assistant Professor of Practice (PoP) (working on full time).


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 31

5.1. Student-Faculty Ratio (30)
(SFR  to  be  calculated  at  Department level considering all  UG  and  PG  engineering
programs in the Department; include allied department programs/clusters as well.)
 No.  of  UG(Engineering) programs  in  Department including  allied  departments/
clusters (UG
n
## ):
##  UG
## 1
## =1
st
UG program
##  UG
n
## =n
th
UG program
 B= No. of Students in UG 2
nd
year (ST)
 C= No. of Students in UG 3
rd
year (ST)
 D= No. of Students in UG 4
th
year (ST)
 No.  of  PG (Engineering) programs  in  Department including  allied  departments/
clusters (PG
m
## ):
##  PG
## 1
## =1
st
PG program.
##  PG
m
## =m
th
PG program
 A= No. of Students in PG 1
st
year
 B= No. of Students in PG 2
nd
year
 Student Faculty Ratio (SFR) = S/F
 S= No. of students of all programs in the Department including all students of
allied departments/clusters.
 No. of students (ST)=Sanctioned Intake (SA)+ Actual admitted students
via lateral entry including leftover seats (L) if any (limited to 10 % of SA)
 Students who admitted under supernumerary quotas (SNQ, EWS, etc) will
not   be   considered   in   calculating   SFR   value.   Those   students   are
exempted.
 F=Total  no. of  regular  or  contractual  faculty members  (Full  Time)  in  the
Department, including allied departments/clusters (excluding first year faculty
(The  faculty  members  who  have  a  100%  teaching  load  in  the  first-year
courses)).
Example: Table No. 5.1.1: Calculation of no. of students admitted in the program
though lateral entry or left-over seats.
Let us assume that sanctioned intake of the program (SA)=120
## Example
case
No. of
students
admitted
in 1
st

year
## Leftover
seats/Unfill
ed seats in
## 1
st
year
No.  of actually students
admitted  in  2
nd
year,  L=
a+ b;

a=Lateral entry
admission (maximum
10% of SA)

b=Leftover seats
admitted in 2
nd
year
No. of students  in
the program to be
considered for
SFR calculation
## (ST)= (SA   +   L)
limited  to  110  %
of SA
## Case 1 120 00 00 120 (120+00)
## Case 2 120 00 12 132 (120+12)
## Case 3 120 00 06 126 (120+06)
## Case 4 60 60 00 120 (120+00)
## Case 5 75 45 06 126 (120+06)
## Case 6 82 38 12 132 (120+12)
## Case 7 88 32 44* 132 (120+12)
## Case 8 60 60 42* 132 (120+12)
*Note: If the number  of  students admitted in 2
nd
year via  lateral entry including left  over
seats (L)  is  more  than  10%  of  the  sanctioned  intake  in  the  respective  program,  then  the


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 32

total  number  of  students  considered  to  be  admitted  in  the  program  (ST)  should  be  the
sanctioned  intake  program  plus  10%  of the  sanctioned  intake  program.  Additionally,  the
(ST) value cannot exceed 132 in the given example.

Table No. 5.1.2: Student-faculty ratio


Note: Programs  such  as  MCA,  BCA, Diploma  (Engineering), and  other  non-engineering
programs running in the Department or allied Departments need to have sufficient faculty
Year CAY  CAYm1 CAYm2
## UG
## 1
## . B
## UG
## 1
## . C
## UG
## 1
## . D
## UG
## 1

## UG
## 1
## .B+ UG
## 1
## .C+
## UG
## 1
## .D
## UG
## 1
## .B+ UG
## 1
## .C+
## UG
## 1
## .D
## UG
## 1
## .B+ UG
## 1
## .C+
## UG
## 1
## .D
## ...
## UG
n
## . B
## UG
n
## . C
## UG
n
## . D
## UG
n

## UG
n
## .B+UG
n
## .C+U
## G
n
## .D
## UG
n
## .B+UG
n
## .C+UG
n
## .D
## UG
n
## .B+UG
n
## .C+U
## G
n
## .D
## PG
## 1
## . A
## PG
## 1
## . B
## PG
## 1
## PG
## 1
## .A+ PG
## 1
## .B PG
## 1
## .A+ PG
## 1
## .B PG
## 1
## .A+ PG
## 1
## .B
## .....
## PG
m
## . A
## PG
m
## . B
## PG
m
## PG
m
## .A+ PG
m
## .B PG
m
## .A+ PG
m
## .B PG
m
## .A+ PG
m
## .B
DS=Total  no.  of  students in  all  UG
and     PG     programs in     the
## Department
## ..... ..... .....
AS=Total  no.  of  students of  all  UG
and    PG    programs in allied
departments
## ..... ..... .....
S=Total  no.  of  students  in  the
Department   (DS)   and allied
departments (AS)
## S1=UG
## 1
## +UG
## 2
## +..
## +UG
n
## +PG
## 1
## +
## ...PG
m
## S2=UG
## 1
## +UG
## 2
## +..
## +UG
n
## +PG
## 1
## +
## ...PG
m

## S3=UG
## 1
## +UG
## 2
## +..
## +UG
n
## +PG
## 1
## +
## ...PG
m

DF=Total  no.  of  faculty  members  in
the Department
## ..... ..... .....
AF= Total  no.  of  faculty  members  in
the allied Departments
## ..... ..... .....
F=Total no. of faculty members in the
Department    (DF)    and    allied
Departments (AF)
## F1 F2 F3
FF=The  faculty  members  in  F  who
have a 100% teaching load in the
first-year courses
## FF1 FF2 FF3
TF= Total faculty= F-FF TF1 TF3 TF3
## Student Faculty Ratio
## (SFR)=S/(TF)
## SFR1= S1/ TF1 SFR2=S2/ TF2 SFR3=S3/ TF3
Average SFR for 3 years Average SFR=(SFR1+SFR2+SFR3)/3


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 33

members  to  support  those  programs.  These  faculty  members  and  students  should  not  be
included in Table No. 5.1.2.

## Note:
Marks  to  be  given  proportionally  from  a  maximum  of  30  to  a  minimum  of  15  for
average  SFR  between  15:1  to  25:1,  and  zero  for  average  SFR higher  than  25:1.
Marks distribution is given as below:
SFR < 15  - 30 Marks
## < 17  - 27 Marks
## < 19  - 24 Marks
## < 21  - 21 Marks
## < 23  - 18 Marks
## < 25  - 15 Marks
## > 25  - 00 Mark


Example  1:  Computer  Science  and  Engineering Department  (Cluster Programs)/
(See Annexure-III):

If the College offers a cluster of Undergraduate(UG) engineering programs & Postgraduate
(PG) Engineering Programs in for example Computer Science and Engineering (CSE),
such as UG-Engineering-CSE, UG-Engineering-CSE (Artificial Intelligence), UG-Engineering-
CSE  (Artificial  Intelligence  and  Machine  Learning),  UG-Engineering-CSE  (Cyber  Security),
UG-Engineering-CSE    (Data    Science),    UG-Engineering-Information    Technology,    PG-
Engineering-CSE within the Department or a separate Department, they will be counted as
one cluster(Department). The SFR should be calculated as follows:

 No. of UG ((Engineering) Programs in Department including allied departments/clusters
## (UG
n
## ): 6
## 1. UG
## 1
=UG-Engineering-CSE
## 2. UG
## 2
=UG-Engineering-CSE (Artificial Intelligence)
## 3. UG
## 3
=UG-Engineering-CSE (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning)
## 4. UG
## 4
=UG-Engineering-CSE (Cyber Security)
## 5. UG
## 5
=UG-Engineering-CSE (Data Science)
## 6. UG
## 6
=UG-Engineering-Information Technology
 No. of PG ((Engineering) Programs in Department including allied departments/clusters
## (PG
m
## ): 1
## 1. PG
## 1
=PG-Engineering-CSE.

Let’s assume  that the Department  of  Computer  Science is  offering  programs  like
## UG
## 1
=UG-Engineering-CSE, UG
## 2
=UG-Engineering-CSE (Artificial   Intelligence), UG
## 3
## =UG-
Engineering-CSE  (Artificial  Intelligence  and  Machine  Learning),  UG
## 4
=UG-Engineering-CSE
(Cyber  Security),  UG
## 5
=UG-Engineering-CSE  (Data  Science), and PG
## 1
=PG-Engineering-CSE.
Additionally, Allied  Departments like  Information Technology is  offering  UG
## 6
## =UG-
Engineering-Information Technology in the above said example. The SFR is to be calculated
as follows:

Example: Student-Faculty Ratio for Table No. 5.1.2.




## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 34

Student  CAY CAYm1 CAYm2
## UG
## 1
## . B 132
## 132 131
## UG
## 1
## . C 132
## 131 130
## UG
## 1
## . D  131
## 130 129
## UG
## 1
(UG-Engineering-CSE)  395 393 390
## UG
## 2
## . B 131 130 125
## UG
## 2
## . C 130 125 130
## UG
## 2
## . D 125 130 123
## UG
## 2
(UG-Engineering-CSE
(Artificial Intelligence))
## 386 385 378
## UG
## 3
## . B
## 126 122 120
## UG
## 3
## . C
## 122 120 112
## UG
## 3
## . D
## 120 122 119
## UG
## 3
(UG-Engineering-CSE
(Artificial Intelligence
and Machine Learning))
## 368 364 351
## UG
## 4
## . B 132
## 132 130
## UG
## 4
## . C 132
## 130 130
## UG
## 4
## . D 130
## 130 129
## UG
## 4
(UG-Engineering-CSE
(Cyber Security)
## 394 392 389
## UG
## 5
## . B 131 130 124
## UG
## 5
## . C 130 124 130
## UG
## 5
## . D 124 130 121
## UG
## 5
(UG-Engineering-CSE
(Data science))
## 385 384 375
## UG
## 6
## . B 132
## 131 130
## UG
## 6
## . C 131
## 130 130
## UG
## 6
## . D 130
## 130 128
## UG
## 6
(UG-Engineering
(Information
## Technology))
## 393 391 388
## PG
## 1
## . A 18 18 18
## PG
## 1
## . B 18 18 18
## PG
## 1
(PG-Engineering-CSE) 36 36 36
DS=Total no. of students in the
Department   (UG
## 1
## ,   UG
## 2
## ,   UG
## 4
## ,
## UG
## 5
## , PG
## 1
## )


## 1,964 1,954 1,919
AS=Total   no.   of   students   in
allied departments (UG
## 6
## )
## 393 391 388
S=Total   no.   of   students   in   the
Department (DS) and allied
departments (AS)
## S1=2,357
(2,321 (all UGs)
## +36(PG))
## S2=2,345
## (2,309(all
UGs)+36(PG))
## S3=2,307
## (2,271(all
UGs)+36(PG))
DF=No.  of  faculty members in  the
## Department
## 95 99 100
AF=No.  of  faculty members in  the
allied Departments
## 25 25 25
F=Total  no.  of  faculty members in F1=120 F2=124 F3=125


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 35


## 5.2. Faculty Qualification (25)

 Faculty qualification index (FQI) = 2.5 * [(10X +4Y)/RF] where
 X=No. of faculty members with Ph.D. degree or equivalent as per AICTE/UGC
norms.
 Y=No.  of  faculty  members  with  M.  Tech.  or  ME  degree  or  equivalent  as  per
AICTE/ UGC norms.
 RF=No. of required faculty in the Department including allied Departments to
adhere  to  the  20:1  Student-Faculty ratio,  with  calculations  based  on  both
student  numbers  and  faculty  requirements  as  per  section 5.1 of  SAR;
## (RF=S/20).
Table No.5.2.1: Faculty qualification.
Year  X Y RF FQI= 2.5 * [(10X +4Y)/RF]
## CAY
CAYm1
CAYm2
## Average Assessment
## Note:
 To determine the RF value (No. of required faculty in the Department, including
allied Departments to adhere to the 20:1 Student-Faculty ratio), all students (S
as  defined  in  section  5.1 of  SAR)  in  the  department,  as  well  as  those  in  allied
departments, need to be considered.
 The  programs,  such  as  MCA,  BCA,  Diploma  (Engineering), and  other  non-
engineering programs running in the Department or allied Departments, need to
have  sufficient  faculty  members  to  support  those  programs  and  exclude  the
faculty members and students listed in Table No. 5.2.1 (X, Y, and RF).

## 5.3. Faculty Cadre Proportion (25)
 Faculty Cadre Proportion is 1(RF1): 2(RF2): 6(RF3)
 RF1=  No.  of  Professors  required  =  1/9  *  No.  of  Faculty  required  to  comply
with  20:1  Student-Faculty  ratio  based  on  no.  of  students (S) as  per  section
5.1 of SAR.
 RF2= No. of Associate Professors required = 2/9 * No. of Faculty required to
comply  with  20:1  Student-Faculty  ratio  based  on  no.  of  students (S) as  per
section 5.1 of SAR.
the  Department (DF) and  allied
Departments (AF)
FF=The  faculty  members  who  have
a  100%  teaching  load  in  the  first-
year courses
## 00 00 00
TF= Total faculty= F-FF 120 124 125
## Student Faculty Ratio
## (SFR)=S/TF
## SFR1=2,357/120=
## 19.64
## SFR2=2,345/12
## 4=18.91
## SFR3=2,307/125=
## 18.46
Average SFR for 3 years Average SFR= (19.64+18.91+18.46)/3=19.00


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 36

 RF3= No. of Assistant Professors required = 6/9 * No. of Faculty required to
comply  with  20:1  Student-Faculty  ratio  based  on  no.  of  students (S) as  per
section 5.1 of SAR.
 Faculty cadre  and  qualification  and  experience  should  be  as  per  AICTE/UGC
norms.
Table No.5.3.1: Faculty cadre proportion details.
## Year
## Professors  Associate Professors  Assistant Professors
## Required
Faculty(RF1)
## Available
Faculty(AF1)
## Required
Faculty(RF2)
## Available
Faculty(AF2)
## Required
Faculty(RF3)
## Available
Faculty(AF3)
## CAY

CAYm1

CAYm2

## Average
## Numbers
## RF1=  AF1= RF2=  AF2= RF3=  AF3=
## .

Faculty Cadre Proportion Marks=    AF1   +  AF2*0.6  +  AF3  * 0.4        * 12.5
## RF1     RF2            RF3


 If AF1 = AF2= 0, then zero mark

 Maximum marks should be limited to 25 if they exceed the allocated marks
 Case 1: AF1/RF1=1; AF2/RF2=1; AF3/RF3=1
Faculty Cadre Proportion marks= (1+0.6+0.4) * 12.5=25.
 Case 2:      AF1/RF1=1; AF2/RF2=4/2; AF3/RF3=8/9
Faculty Cadre Proportion marks=(1+1.2+0.36)* 12.5=32(limited to
## 25)
## Note:
 All  Professors  (RF1,  AF1),  all  Associate  Professors  (RF2,  AF2),  and  all
Assistant  Professors  (RF3, AF3) in the  department,  as  well  as  those  in  allied
departments,  should  be  considered  for  the  calculation  of  faculty  cadre
proportion marks
 To determine the RF1, RF2, and RF3 values, all students (S as defined in the
section 5.1 of SAR) in the department, as well as those in allied departments,
need to be considered.
 The  programs,  such  as  MCA,  BCA, ,  Diploma  (Engineering) and  other  non-
engineering programs running in the Department or allied Departments, need
to  have  sufficient  faculty  members  to  support  them  and  exclude  the  faculty
members listed in Table No. 5.3.1 (AF1, AF2, AF3).

5.4. Visiting/Adjunct Faculty/Professor of Practice (10)

(Provide  details  of  participation  and  contributions  in  teaching,  learning,  or  practical
work  by  visiting,  adjunct,  and  emeritus faculty;  Professors  of  Practice  (PoP),
Associate Professors of Practice, and Assistant Professors of Practice, engaged on an


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 37

hourly  or  part-time  basis,  etc.,  from  industry,  research  organizations,  and  reputed
institutions, as well as retired professors, during the assessment period.)

 Provision  of  visiting  or  adjunct  faculty/emeritus professor/professor  of  practice
etc. (01)
 Minimum  50 cumulative hours  per  year  of  interaction  with  adjunct  faculty  from
industry or research organization, retired professors, etc. (09)
 A minimum of 50 hours of interaction in a year will result in 3 marks for that year
(3 marks * 3 years = 9 marks).

Note: Here,  individuals  who  contribute  to  teaching,  learning,  or  practical
work on part-time basis or an hourly basis need to be included. There is no
data repetition from Section 5.1.

Table No. 5.4.1: List of visiting/adjunct faculty/professor of practice and their teaching and
practical loads.
S.N. Name of the
## Person
## Designation  &
## Organization
Name of the
## Course
No. of hours
handled
CAYm1
## 1
## ..
Total no. of hours:
CAYm2
## 1
## ..
Total no. of hours:
CAYm3
## 1
## ..
Total no. of hours:

## 5.5. Faculty Retention (10)

Table No.5.5.1: Faculty retention ratio.
Item  CAY CAYm1 CAYm2
RF=No.  of  required  faculty in the  Department to  adhere  to
the  20:1  Student-Faculty  ratio,  with  calculations  based
on  both  student  numbers  and  faculty  requirements  as
per section 5.1 of SAR; (RF=DS/20).



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 38

AF=The no. of available faculty members in the Department
A= The no. of faculty members at the current institute with
less than 1 year of experience (A in AF)

B= The no. of faculty members at the current institute with
more than 1 year and less than 2 years of experience (B
in AF)

C= The no. of faculty members at the current institute with
more  than  2  years and  less  than  3  years  of  experience
(C in AF)

D= The no. of faculty members at the current institute with
more  than  3  years and  less  than  4  years  of  experience
(D in AF)

E= The no. of faculty members at the current institute with
more than 4 years of experience (E in AF)

Faculty retention ratio=FR=(((A*0)+(B*1)+(C*2)+
## (D*3)+(E*4))/RF) *2.50
(points limited to 10)
## FR_1 FR_2 FR_3
Average FR= ((FR_1+ FR_2+ FR_3)/3)
(marks limited to 10)


## Note:
 To  determine  the  RDF  value (Number  of  faculty  required  to  comply  with  the  20:1
student-faculty ratio in the Department including allied Departments), all students (S
as defined in section 5.1 of SAR) in the department need to be considered.
 The programs, such as MCA, BCA, diploma (Engineering), and other non-engineering
programs  running  in  the  Department,  need  to  have  sufficient  faculty  members  to
support them and exclude the faculty members listed in Table No. 5.5.1 (AF).

Example for Table No.5.5.1: Faculty retention ratio.
Item  CAY CAYm1 CAYm2
RF=No.  of  required  faculty  in
the Department to adhere
to    the    20:1    Student-
Faculty ratio, with
calculations based on both
student numbers     and
faculty   requirements   as
per  section  5.1  of  SAR;
## (RF=DS/20).
## 1,964/20=98 1,954/20=97 2,307/20=95
AF=The    no.    of    available
faculty   members   in   the
## Department
## 95 99 100
A=The no. of faculty
members  at  the  current
institute  with  less  than  1
year of  experience  (A  in
## AF)
## 1 0 2
B=The no. of faculty
members  at  the  current
## 2 3 10


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 39

institute with more than 1
year and less than 2 years
of experience (B in AF)
C=The no. of faculty
members  at  the  current
institute with more than 2
years   and   less   than   3
years  of  experience  (C  in
## AF)
## 1 2 2
D=The no. of faculty
members  at  the  current
institute with more than 3
years   and   less   than   4
years  of  experience  (D  in
## AF)
## 1 0 1
E=    The    no.    of    faculty
members  at  the  current
institute with more than 4
years  of  experience  (E  in
## AF)
## 90 94 85
## FR=(((A*0)   +(B*1)   +(C*2)
## +(D*3)  +  (E*4))/RF)  *  2.50
(points limited to 10)
## FR_1=((0+2+2+3
## +360)/98)*2.50=
## 9.36
## FR_2=((0+3+4+0
## +376)/97)*2.50=
## 9.87
## FR_3=((0+10+4+
## 3+340)/95)*2.50=
## 9.39
Average  FR=  ((FR_1+  FR_2+
## FR_3)/3)
(marks limited to 10)
## (9.36+9.87+9.39)/3=28.62/3=9.54
























## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 40

## Criterion 6: Faculty Contribution (120)

Here, Department Information Alone needs to be added

## 6.1. Professional Development Activities (60)

6.1.1. Memberships in Profession Societies at National/International Levels (05)

(Provide details of  faculty  members,  who  have  active  recognized  professional
memberships  and  their  positions  and  contributions  to  professional  societies  during
the assessment period.)

Table No. 6.1.1.1: List of faculty members and their memberships.
S.N. Name     of     the
## Faculty
Name    of the Professional
Society /Body at National and
## International Level
Name    of    the    Grade/
Level/Position
## 1  
## 
## 
## 
## ..

6.1.2. Faculty as Resource Persons or Participants in STTPs/FDPs (15)

6.1.2.1. Faculty as Resource Persons in STTPs/FDPs (05)

(Provide  details  of  the  faculty  involved  as  resource  persons  in  STTP/FDP  events
during the assessment period.)

Table  No.  6.1.2.1.1: List  of  faculty  members  as  resource  person  in STTP/FDP
events.
S.N. Name of the Faculty as
## Resource Person
Name     of     the
## STTP/FDP
## Date Location  Organized
by
CAYm1
## 1
## ..
`CAYm2
## 1
## ..
CAYm3
## 1
## ..

6.1.2.2. Faculty Members’ Participation in STTPs/FDPs (10)

(Provide  details  of  faculty participated in  STTP/FDP  events  during  the  assessment
period with  special  reference  to  the  faculty  competency  for  the  program  under
consideration  for  accreditation. Please  do  not  give  duplicate  data  from the  section


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 41

## 6.1.3.)

 A Faculty scores maximum five points for participation
 Participation in 2 to 5 days Faculty/ Faculty development program: 3 Points
 Participation in >5 days Faculty/ Faculty development program: 5 points.

Table No. 6.1.2.2.1: List of faculty members participated in STTP/FDP events.
S.N. Name  of  the Faculty as Resource
Person or Participant
Max. 5 per Faculty
CAYm1 CAYm2 CAYm3
## 1
## ..
## Sum
RF=Number  of  faculty  required  to  comply  with
the   20:1   student-faculty   ratio   in   the
Department  alone,  as  per  section  5.1 of
## SAR (FF=DS/20).
## RF_1 RF_2 RF_3
Assessment Points (AP)= 2* (Sum/(0.5* RF))
(Points limited to 10 for each assessment year)
## AP_1 AP_2 AP_3
Average   assessment   points   over   3   years=
## ((AP_1+AP_2+AP_3)/3)
(Marks   limited   to 10 over   the   assessment
period)

## Note:
- We need to consider all students (DS) in the department alone to determine the
RF value (Number  of  faculty  required  to  comply  with the  20:1  student-faculty
ratio in the Department).
- Faculty  members  who  participated  in  the  FDP/STP  programs at  the  parent
institute  will  not  be  counted. Only  participation  in  external  programs  will  be
considered.

6.1.3. Faculty Certification of MOOCs through SWAYAM, etc. (10)

(Provide  details  of  faculty  members,  who  have  obtained  MOOCs  (Massive  Open
Online  Courses) certification through  platforms  like  SWAYAM/SWAYM  PLUS/NPTEL
and other approved programs during the assessment period.)

Table No. 6.1.3.1: List of faculty members obtained certification of MOOCs for the past 3
years.
S.N. Name of the
## Faculty
Name of Course
## Passed
Course Offered by
## (agency)
Grade obtained
if any
## 1
## ..

6.1.4. FDP/STTP Organized by the Department (10)

(Provide  details  of  the number  of  faculty  development  programs  and  short-term
training  programs  organized  by  the  department  individually  or  in  collaboration  with
other departments over the past 3 years.)



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 42

 The minimum duration of FDP/STTP is 5 days.
 2 points per FDP/STTP, with a maximum of 4 marks per assessment year and a
total maximum of 10 marks

Table No. 6.1.4.1: List of FDPs/STPs organized by Department for the past 3 years.
S.N. Name  of
the
## Program
Date    of
the
## Program
## Duration
of the
## Program
Name  of  the Speaker
& Designation     and
## Organization
No.    of People
## Attended
CAYm1
## 1
## ..
CAYm2
## 1
## ..
CAYm3
## 1
## ..

6.1.5. Faculty Support in Student Innovative Projects (10)

(Provide details of faculty support as a mentor, facilitator, etc. in student innovation
projects in various  events  like hackathons,  codeathons,  ideathons,  open  research,
etc.)


Table No. 6.1.5.1: List of faculty members involved in student innovative projects.
## S.N.

Name  of  the
## Faculty
Name    of    the Project/
## Initiative/ Event

Date of
## Event
Place of
## Event
## Website
Link if any
CAYm1
## 1
## 
## 

## ..

CAYm2
## 1

## ..

CAYm3
## 1

## ..



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 43


6.1.6. Faculty Internship/Training/Collaboration with Industry (10)

(Provide details  of faculty  members  who  have  undergone  internships  or  training in
industry  and  research  organizations,  or  a  list  of  faculty  members  who  are  actively
collaborating with industry.

The  outcomes  of  internships,  training,  and  collaborations  including  the  number  of
programs organized for students and faculty members, the development of working
models  and  prototypes,  the  publication  of  joint  research  papers,  the  number  of
funded projects received, etc. for the assessment period.)

Table No. 6.1.6.1: Faculty internship/training/collaboration details.
## S.N.


Name  of
the
## Faculty

Name of the
## Internship/
## Training/
## Collaboration
Name  of  the
## Company   &
## Place

Duration  Outcomes of
## Internship/
## Training/
## Collaboration
## 1


## 
## 
## 
## 
##   
## 
## ..
## 
## 
##   

6.2. Research and Development Activities (60)

## 6.2.1. Academic Research (10)

(Provide  details  of compiled  list  including research  papers,  available  online  or  in
hard-copy, from reputable publishers and should be list of Scopus/WoS. Only papers
with   the   faculty   member's   affiliation aligned   with   the   current   institution   are
considered.  Each  entry  in  the  comprehensive  list  includes  details such  as  DOI,
publisher, and month/year of publication.

Table No. 6.2.1.1: Faculty publication details.
S.N. Item CAYm1 CAYm2 CAYm3
1 No. of peer reviewed journal papers published
2 No. of peer reviewed conference papers published
3 No. of books/book chapters published

## 6.2.2. Development Activities (10)

(Provide  details of patents granted/published, working models, and prototypes
developed by faculty members in the last 3 years.)

## 6.2.3. Sponsored Research Project (15)

(Provide details of funded  research  projects  from the external  sources including
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). List includes Principal Investigator (PI), Co-PI
name, name  of  the  dept  where  project  is  sanctioned,  project  title,  funding  agency,
sanctioned amount,  duration  and sanctioned year.  Also,  provide  the  cumulative
funding  amount received during  CAYm1,  CAYm2,  and  CAYm3. Please  do  not give
duplicate data from the sections 6.2.4 and 6.2.5.)


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 44


##  Amount > 15 Lacs – 15 Marks
 Amount > 12 Lacs and < 15 lacs– 12 Marks
 Amount > 9 Lacs and < 12 lacs –9 Marks
 Amount > 6 Lacs and < 9 lacs –6 Marks
 Amount > 3 Lacs and < 6 lacs –3 Marks
 Amount > 1 Lacs and < 3 lacs –1 Mark
##  Amount < 1 Lac – 0 Mark.

Table No. 6.2.3.1: List of sponsored research projects received from external agencies.
## S.N. PI
name

Co-PI
names  if
any
Name of    the
Dept., where
project is
sanctioned
## Project
title*
Name    of
the
## Funding
agency
## Duration
of the
project
## Amount
(Lacs)
CAYm1
## 1
## ..
Amount received (Rs.)
CAYm2
## 1
## ...
Amount received (Rs.)
CAYm3
## 1
## ..
Amount received (Rs.)
Total Amount (Lacs) Received for the Past 3 Years
## Note*:
 Only sponsored research projects will be considered. Infrastructure-based projects
will not be considered here.

## 6.2.4. Consultancy Work (15)

(Provide  details of consultancy  projects  from the external  sources.  List  includes
Principal  Investigator   (PI), Co-PI  name, name  of  the  dept  where  project  is
sanctioned,   project   title,   funding   agency, sanctioned amount,   duration   and
sanctioned year.  Also,  provide  the  cumulative  funding  amount received during
CAYm1,  CAYm2,  and  CAYm3. Please  do  not give duplicate  data  from  the  sections
6.2.3 and 6.2.5.)
##  Amount > 15 Lacs – 15 Marks
 Amount > 12 Lacs and < 15 lacs–12 Marks
 Amount > 9 Lacs and < 12 lacs –9 Marks
 Amount > 6 Lacs and < 9 lacs –6 Marks
 Amount > 3 Lacs and < 6 lacs –3 Marks
 Amount > 1 Lacs and < 3 lacs –1 Mark
##  Amount < 1 Lac – 0 Mark.



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 45

Table No. 6.2.4.1: List of consultancy projects received from external agencies.
## S.N. PI
name

Co-PI
names
if any
Name of the
Dept., where
project is
sanctioned
## Project
title*
Name  of
the
## Funding
agency
## Duration
of the
project
## Amoun
t
(Lacs)
CAYm1
## 1
## ..
Amount received (Rs.)
CAYm2
## 1
## ...
Amount received (Rs.)
CAYm3
## 1
## ..
Amount received (Rs.)
Total amount (Lacs) received for the past 3 years

## Note*:
 Only consultancy projects  will  be considered.  Infrastructure-based  projects  will
not be considered here.

6.2.5. Institution  Seed  Money  or   Internal  Research   Grant   to   its Faculty for
## Research Work (10)

(Provide details  of faculty  members  received  Institution  seed  money  grants  to  its
faculty for research work. Also, provide the cumulative funding amount received and
utilized during CAYm1, CAYm2, and CAYm3. Please do not give duplicate data from
the sections 6.2.3 and 6.2.4. The outcomes of the project are no. of publications, no.
of working models/prototypes, no. of Ph.D. students graduated, no. of M.E students
graduated, amount generated, etc.)

Amount received (6 marks)
##  Amount > 6 Lacs – 6 Marks
 Amount > 4 Lacs and < 6 lacs– 4 Marks
 Amount > 2 Lacs and < 4 lacs –2 Mark
##  Amount < 1 Lac – 0 Mark.

Amount utilized (4 marks).

Table No. 6.2.5.1: List of faculty members received seed money or internal research grant
from the Institution.
S.N. Faculty
name
Project title/
Support for
## Activity
## Duration  Amount
(Lacs)
## Amount
## Utilized
(Lacs)
## Outcomes
of the
project
CAYm1
## 1
## ..


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 46

Amount received (Rs.)
CAYm2
## 1
## ..
Amount received (Rs.)
CAYm3
## 1
## ..
Amount received (Rs.)
Total amount (Lacs) received for the past 3 years


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 47

Criterion 7: Facilities and Technical Support (100)
7.1.  Adequate and Well-Equipped Laboratories, and Technical Manpower (50)

(Provide details of various laboratories for the program and at the department level.
Also, please provide a list of technical support staff appointed by the College for the
Department  and  their  qualifications. Please  do  not  give  duplicate  data  from  the
sections 7.2 and 7.5.)

Table No.7.1.1: List of laboratories and technical manpower.
## S.
## N.






Name of
the
## Laborato
ry




No. of
student
s per
setup
(Batch
## Size)


Name of
the major
equipmen
t




## Weekly
utilization
status
(all the
courses for
which the
lab is
utilized)
Technical Manpower support

## Name
of the
technic
al staff

## Designati
on




## Qualificati
on




## 1.
## ..

7.2. Additional   Facilities Created   for   Improving   the   Quality   of   Learning
Experience in Laboratories (20)

(Provide details of various additional facilities provided by the department to enhance
the  quality  of learning  in  laboratories. Please  do  not give duplicate  data  from the
sections 7.1 and 7.5. Including any labs funded by external agencies)

Table No.7.2.1: List of additional facilities.
## S. N.

Name of the
## Facility
## Details

## Purpose
for creating facility
## Utilization

Relevance to
POs/PSOs
## 1.
## ...

7.3. Maintenance of Laboratories and Overall Ambiance (10)

(Provide details  of overall  laboratories  maintenance  and  overall  ambiance  in  the
## Department.)

7.4.  Safety Measures in Laboratories (10)

(Provide details  of various  safety  measures  deployed  in  each  laboratory within  the
## Department.)

Table No. 7.4.1: List of various safety measures in laboratories.
S.N. Name of the Laboratory

Safety measures
## 1.
## ...


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 48

7.5. Project Laboratory/Research Laboratory (10)

(Provide details   of laboratories for   supporting   projects, research, Centre   of
Excellence, innovation, and startups etc. Please do not give duplicate data from the
sections 7.1 and 7.2.)

Table No. 7.5.1: List of project laboratory/research laboratory.
S.N. Name of the Laboratory

## 1.
## ...






































## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 49

## Criterion 8: Continuous Improvement (80)

- 1. Actions Taken Based on the Results of Evaluation of the COs, POs, and PSOs
## (40)

8.1.1. Actions Taken Based on the Results of Evaluation of the COs Attainment (20)

(Identify the areas of weaknesses in the program based on the analysis of evaluation
of  COs  attainment  levels.  Measures  identified  and  implemented  to  improve  COs
attainment   levels   for   the   assessment   year   (CAYm1)   including   curriculum
intervention, pedagogical initiatives, support system improvements, etc.)

8.1.2. Actions Taken Based on the Results of Evaluation of the   POs/PSOs
## Attainment (20)

(Identify the areas of weaknesses in the program based on the analysis of evaluation
of  POs/PSOs  attainment  levels. Measures  identified  and  implemented  during  two
years   to   improve   POs   attainment   levels   including   curriculum   intervention,
pedagogical initiatives, support system improvements, etc.)

8.2. Academic Audit and Actions Taken thereof during the Period of Assessment
## (15)

(Academic  audit  system/process  and  its  implementation  in  relation  to  continuous
improvement.)

8.3. Improvement in Faculty Qualification/Contribution (10)

(Assessment  is  based  on  improvement  in  qualification and  publications with  respect
to the Department During the assessment period.)

Table No.8.3.1: Improvement in qualification and publications
Item CAYm1 CAYm2 CAYm3
No. of faculty   members   with Ph.D.
degree

No. of  publications  in  peer  reviewed
journals

No. of publications in conferences

8.4. Improvement in Academic Performance (15)

(Provide  details  of  improvement  in  academic performance of  1
st
year,  2
nd
year,  3
rd

year students during the assessment period.)

Table No.8.4.1: Improvement in academic performance
Item CAYm1 CAYm2 CAYm3
Academic  Performance  Index  (API)  of  the  First-
Year  Students  in  the  Program  (Refer  to  section
## 4.3)

Academic  Performance  Index  of  the  Second-Year
Students in the Program (Refer to section 4.4)

Academic  Performance  Index  of  the  Third  Year
Students in the Program (Refer to section 4.5)



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 50

Criterion 9: Student Support System and Governance (120)

9.1. First Year Student-Faculty Ratio (FYSFR) (05)

(Data for first year courses to calculate the FYSFR)
Table No. 9.1.1: FYSFR details.
## Year








## Sanctioned
intake of
all UG
programs
## (S4)




No. of
required
faculty
## (RF4=
## S4/20)
No. of faculty
members in
## Basic Science
## Courses &
Humanities and
## Social Sciences
including
## Management
courses (NS1)
No. of
faculty
members in
## Engineering
## Science
## Courses
## (NS2)
## Percentage=
No. of   faculty members
## ((NS1*0.8)
+(NS2*0.2))/(No. of
required faculty (RF4));

Percentage=((NS1*0.8)+
## (NS2*0.2))/RF4

## CAY

CAYm1

CAYm2

## Average Percentage
## Note:
Ex: If S4=240, the Institute needs a minimum of 2 faculty members in Physics, 2
in Chemistry, and 4 in Mathematics.

Ex: If S4=420, the Institute needs a minimum of 4 faculty members in Physics, 4
in Chemistry, and 5 in Mathematics.

Ex: If S4=720, the Institute needs a minimum of 6 faculty members in Physics, 6
in Chemistry, and 8 in Mathematics.

For intake  (S4) is  more  than  720,  an FYSFR  of  1:20  shall  be  maintained
approximately.
Average Percentage > 80% of faculty members; 5 marks.
> 70% to < 80 of faculty members; 4 marks.
> 60% to < 70 of faculty members; 3 marks.
> 50% to < 60 of faculty members; 2 marks.
> 40% to < 50 of faculty members; 1 mark.
< 40% of faculty members; 00 mark.

Example for Table No. 9.1.1: FYSFR details
## Year









## Sanctioned
intake of
all UG
programs
## (S4)





No. of
required
faculty
## (RF4=
## S4/20)
No. of faculty
members in
## Basic Science
## Courses &
## Humanities
and Social
## Sciences
including
## Management
courses (NS1)
No. of
faculty
members in
## Engineering
## Science
## Courses
## (NS2)
## Percentage=
No. of   faculty members
((NS1*0.8) +(NS2*0.2))/(No.
of required faculty (RF4));

Percentage=((NS1*0.8)+
## (NS2*0.2))/RF4





## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 51

## CAY

## 300 15 18 3 ((18*0.8) +(3*0.2))/15
## =(14.4+0.6)/15=15/15=100%
CAYm1

## 300 15 16 2 ((16*0.8) +(2*0.2))/15
## =(12.8+0.4)/15=13.2/15=86%
CAYm2

## 240 12 10 2 ((10*0.8) +(2*0.2))/12
## =(8+0.4)/12=8.4/12=70%
Average Percentage     85.33 (5 marks)

## 9.2. Mentoring System (05)

(Type of mentoring: Professional guidance/career advancement/course work specific/
laboratory  specific/all-round  development.  Number  of  faculty  mentors:  Number  of
students per mentor: Frequency of meeting:

The institution should report the details of the mentoring system, its implementation
and effectiveness through impact studies, services both online and physical, and the
mentoring of seniors (final year students) to juniors (freshmen) if any, etc.).

## 9.3. Feedback Analysis (20)

9.3.1. Feedback on Teaching and Learning Process and Corrective Measures Taken,
if any (10)

(Provide  details  of  the  feedback  collection  process  on  TLP,  average  percentage  of
students  who  participate;  Specify  the  feedback  analysis  process;  Basis of  reward/
corrective measures during the assessment period. Specify the number of corrective
measures taken. Exhibit the details of analysis done.)

9.3.2. Feedback on Academic Facilities (10)

(Provide  details  of  the  feedback  collection  process  on  facilities,  its  analysis  and
corrective actions taken during the assessment period.)

9.4. Training and Placement Support (10)

(Provide  details  of  the  training  and  placement supports,  calendar  of  scheduled
trainings, career guidance and effectiveness of career guidance, industry interaction
exclusively  for  pre-placement/  internship/placement/counseling and  support for
higher study etc.)

9.5. Start-up and Entrepreneurship Activities (05)

(Describe  the initiatives, facilities  created/utilization  and  their  effectiveness  in
encouraging students for innovation, entrepreneurship, incubation and start-up. Also
provide the list of beneficiaries.)

9.6. Governance and Transparency (15)

9.6.1. Governing Body, Administrative Setup, Functions of Various Bodies, Service
Rules, Recruitment procedures and Promotion Policies (10)

(Provide  details  of  statutory  and  non-statutory  administrative  committees  like  the
Governing  body,  Academic  Council/  Senate,  Grievance  redressal  Committee,  IQAC,
Anti-Raging   committee,   Disciplinary   committee   in   place;   Internal   Complaints


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 52

Committee (Women harassment mitigation committee) etc., provide the approval of
these  committees  along  with  details  of  members,  the  meetings  details  (meeting
notice, agenda, minutes, action taken etc. The service rules, policies and procedures;
year of publication are to be listed.)

## 9.6.2. Transparency (05)

(Information  on  policies,  rules,  processes,  delegation  of  financial  powers,  faculty,
students, etc., and dissemination of this information to stakeholders should be made
available  on  the Institute's  website.  Agendas  and  minutes  of  the  Governing  Body,
Academic  Council,  and  Senate  are  also  required  to  be  uploaded  on  the Institute's
website. Additionally, state the extent of awareness among the stakeholders.)

9.7. Budget Allocation, Utilization, and Public Accounting at Institute Level (12)

(Provide  a  summary  of  the  financial  year's  budget  and  actual  expenditure  incurred
exclusively  for  the  institution  in  the  three  financial  years:  CFYm1,  CFYm2,  and
CFYm3. If the management oversees multiple Institutions, exclusive audited records
for  each Institute  must  be  provided  and  made  available  on  the Institute's  website.
The budget should be approved by the Institute BoG/GB/GC before the start  of the
financial year.)
CFY=Current Financial Year.
CFYm1=Current Financial Year Minus 1.
CFYm2=Current Financial Year Minus 2.
CFYm3=Current Financial Year Minus 3.

For CFYm1

Table No. 9.7.1: Summary of budget and actual expenditure incurred at Institute level for
CFY m1.
Total Income in the CFYm1


## Actual
expenditure
in the CFYm1
## Total
Students in
the institute
Expenditure per
student
in CFYm1:
## Fee Govt. Grant(s)

## Other
## Sources
## (specify)


## Note:
 Similar tables are to be prepared for CFYm2 & CFYm3.
 Audited statements for CFYm2, and CFYm3 are to be uploaded on the website

Table No. 9.7.2: Budget and actual expenditure incurred at Institute level.
## Items



## Budget
ed in
## CFY
## Actual
expens
es in
CFY (till
## ...)
## Budget
ed in
CFYm1
## Actual
## Expens
es in
CFYm1
## Budget
ed in
CFYm2
## Actual
## Expens
es in
CFYm2
## Budget
ed in
CFYm3
## Actual
## Expens
es in
CFYm3
## Infrastructure
Built-Up

## Library

## Laboratory
equipment



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 53

Teaching   and
non-teaching
staff salary

## Outreach
## Programs

## R&D

## Training,
## Placement
and    Industry
linkage

SDGs
## Entrepreneurs
hip

Others*,     pl.
specify

## Total
amount

- Items to be mentioned.

## 9.8. Program Specific Budget Allocation, Utilization (08)

(Total budget at program level: CFYm1, CFYm2 & CFYm3
CFY=Current Financial Year.
CFYm1=Current Financial Year Minus 1.
CFYm2=Current Financial Year Minus 2.
CFYm3=Current Financial Year Minus 3.)

For CFYm1 (Similar table to be prepared for CFYm2 and CFYm3)

Table No. 9.8.1:  Summary of budget and actual expenditure incurred at program level.
Total Budget in CFYm1:
Actual expenditure in
CFYm1:
Total No. of
students in
CFYm1:
## Demanded
## Actual
## Allocated
## Actual
## Expenditure
## % Spent
Expenditure per
student

Note: Justification and process of budgeting to be listed.

Table No. 9.8.2: Budget and actual expenditure incurred at program level.
## Items
## Budgeted
in CFY
## Actual
expenses
in CFY
## (till ...)
## Budgeted
in CFYm1
## Actual
## Expenses
in CFYm1
## Budgeted
in CFYm2
## Actual
## Expenses
in CFYm2
## Budgeted
in CFYm3
## Actual
## Expenses
in CFYm3
## Laboratory
equipment

## Software



## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 54

SDGs

Support for
faculty
development

## R & D

## Industrial
## Training,
## Industry
expert,
## Internship

## Miscellaneous
expenses *

Total amount

- Items to be mentioned.

9.9. Quality of Learning Resources (Hard/Soft) (05)

(Provide  details  of  available  learning  resources,  including  e-resources (books  and
journals), as well as information on the accessibility of these resources to students.
Additionally, describe the support provided to students for self-learning activities.)

9.10. E-Governance (05)

(E-governance    initiatives,    sustainable    practices    in    academic    and    learning
management,   campus-wide   computing   resources,   and   their   accessibility   and
availability to support academic and professional activities for students and faculty.)

9.11. Initiatives and Implementation of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (10)

(Provide  details of  initiatives  taken  towards  implementation  of  SDG specifically  on
green  energy,  waste management,  preserving  water,  net  zero,  quality  education,
reuse,  recycle,  less  use  to  renewables,  etc. Provide  evidences on  implementation
(projects  assigned,  R  &  D  activities,  entrepreneurial  activities,  outreach programs
etc.)

9.12. Innovative Educational Initiatives and Implementation (05)

(Provide  details  of  initiatives  taken  towards  mobility  of  students,  implementation  of
academic bank of credits, and support for holistic education including human values,
multidisciplinary/interdisciplinary     curriculum/programs,     initiatives     on     Indian
Knowledge  System,  Contribution  towards  and  implementation  of  teaching  in  Indian
language, etc. Policies on inclusivity and equity and their implementation, support for
economically,  socially  and  physically  challenged  students. Action  plan  and  its
implementation for slow learners.)

9.13.  Faculty Performance Appraisal and Development System (FPADS) (10)

(Faculty members of Higher Educational Institutions today have to perform a variety
of tasks pertaining to diverse roles. In addition to instruction, faculty members need
to  innovate  and  conduct  research  for  their  self-renewal,  keep  abreast  of  changes  in
technology, and develop expertise for the effective implementation of curricula. They


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 55

are  also  expected  to  provide  services  to  the  industry  and  community  to  understand
and  contribute  to  solving  real-life  problems  in  industry.  Another  role  involves
shouldering  administrative  responsibilities  and  cooperating  with  other  faculty,  heads
of  departments,  and  the  head  of  the  institute.  An  effective  performance  appraisal
system  for  faculty  is  vital  for  optimizing  the  contribution  of  individual  faculty  to
institutional performance.

The  assessment  is  based  on a well-defined  system  for  faculty  appraisal  for  all  the
assessment years and its implementation and effectiveness.)

## 9.14. Outreach Activities (05)

(Provide details  of outreach  activities  such  as  community  service,  Unnat  Bharat
Abhiyan, social internship and society connect activities undertaken by the students
and their achievements.)























## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 56

Annexure I: Knowledge and Attitude Profile (WK)

WK1: A systematic, theory-based understanding  of  the natural  sciences applicable to the
discipline and awareness of relevant social sciences.
WK2: Conceptually-based mathematics, numerical  analysis,  data  analysis,  statistics and
formal aspects of computer and information science to support detailed analysis and
modelling applicable to the discipline.
WK3: A  systematic, theory-based formulation of engineering fundamentals required in the
engineering discipline.
WK4: Engineering specialist knowledge that provides theoretical frameworks and bodies of
knowledge for the accepted practice areas  in  the  engineering  discipline;  much  is  at
the forefront of the discipline.
WK5: Knowledge,  including  efficient  resource use,  environmental  impacts,  whole-life  cost,
re-use of resources, net zero carbon, and similar concepts, that supports engineering
design and operations in a practice area.
WK6: Knowledge of engineering practice  (technology)  in  the  practice  areas  in  the
engineering discipline.
WK7: Knowledge  of  the  role  of engineering  in society  and  identified  issues  in  engineering
practice in the discipline, such  as the  professional  responsibility  of  an  engineer  to
public safety and sustainable development.
WK8: Engagement with  selected  knowledge  in the  current research literature  of  the
discipline,  awareness  of  the  power  of  critical thinking and creative approaches to
evaluate emerging issues.
WK9: Ethics,   inclusive   behavior   and conduct. Knowledge   of   professional   ethics,
responsibilities,  and  norms  of  engineering practice. Awareness of the need for
diversity by reason of ethnicity, gender, age, physical  ability  etc.  with  mutual
understanding and respect, and of inclusive attitudes.











## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 57

Annexure-II: Program Outcomes (POs)

PO1:   Engineering   Knowledge: Apply   knowledge   of   mathematics,   natural   science,
computing, engineering fundamentals and an engineering specialization as specified
in  WK1  to  WK4  respectively  to  develop  to  the  solution  of  complex  engineering
problems.

PO2:  Problem  Analysis: Identify,  formulate,  review  research  literature  and  analyze
complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions with consideration
for sustainable development. (WK1 to WK4)

PO3: Design/Development   of   Solutions: Design   creative   solutions   for   complex
engineering  problems  and  design/develop  systems/components/processes  to  meet
identified  needs  with  consideration  for  the  public  health  and  safety,  whole-life  cost,
net zero carbon, culture, society and environment as required. (WK5)

PO4:  Conduct   Investigations   of   Complex   Problems: Conduct   investigations   of
complex  engineering  problems  using  research-based  knowledge  including  design  of
experiments,   modelling,   analysis   &   interpretation   of   data   to   provide   valid
conclusions. (WK8).
PO5:  Engineering  Tool  Usage:  Create,  select  and  apply  appropriate  techniques,
resources  and  modern  engineering  &  IT  tools,  including  prediction  and  modelling
recognizing their limitations to solve complex engineering problems. (WK2 and WK6)
PO6:  The  Engineer  and  The  World: Analyze  and evaluate  societal  and  environmental
aspects  while  solving  complex  engineering  problems  for  its  impact  on  sustainability
with   reference   to   economy,   health,   safety,   legal   framework,   culture   and
environment. (WK1, WK5, and WK7).
PO7:  Ethics: Apply  ethical  principles  and  commit  to  professional  ethics,  human  values,
diversity and inclusion; adhere to national & international laws. (WK9)
PO8:  Individual  and  Collaborative  Team  work: Function  effectively  as  an  individual,
and as a member or leader in diverse/multi-disciplinary teams.
PO9: Communication: Communicate  effectively  and  inclusively  within  the  engineering
community  and  society  at  large,  such  as  being  able  to  comprehend  and  write
effective   reports   and   design   documentation,   make   effective   presentations
considering cultural, language, and learning differences
PO10: Project   Management   and   Finance: Apply  knowledge  and  understanding  of
engineering  management  principles  and  economic  decision-making  and  apply  these
to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, and to manage projects and
in multidisciplinary environments.
PO11: Life-Long  Learning: Recognize  the  need  for,  and  have  the  preparation  and  ability
for  i)  independent  and  life-long  learning  ii)  adaptability  to  new  and  emerging
technologies and iii) critical thinking in the broadest context of technological change.
## (WK8)
Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs) up to 2-3.


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 58

## Declaration

The head of the institution needs to make a declaration as per the format given below:
I undertake that, the institution is well aware about the provisions in the NBA’s accreditation
manual concerned for this application, rules, regulations, notifications and NBA expert visit
guidelines in force as on date and the institute shall fully abide by them.
It is submitted that information provided in this Self-Assessment Report is factually correct.
I understand and agree that an appropriate disciplinary action against the Institute will be
initiated by the NBA in case any false statement/information is observed during pre-visit,
visit, post visit and subsequent to grant of accreditation.





## Date: Signature & Name
Place:                        Head of the Institution with seal













## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 59

Annexure-III (Sample):
- Computer  Science  and  Engineering  Allied  Departments/Cluster
(Corresponding   Program(s)   of   Engineering/Technology)-Major
programs:
 Computer Science and Engineering
 3-D Animation & Graphics
##  Advanced Computer Application
 Computer and Communication Engineering
##  Computer Engineering
##  Computer Engineering & Application,
##  Computer Networking,
##  Computer Science,
##  Computer Science & Technology,
 Computer Science and Information Technology,
 Computer Science and Systems Engineering,
##  Computer Technology,
 Computing in Computing
 Computing in Multimedia
 Computing in Software
 Electronics and Computer Science
 Electronics and Computer Engineering
 Mathematics and Computing,
##  Software Engineering
 Computer Science and Business Systems
 Artificial intelligence
 Artificial intelligence and machine learning
 Computer Science and Engineering & Business Systems
 Computer Science and Engineering (Artificial Intelligence and Machine
## Learning)
 Computer  Science  and  Engineering  (Internet  of  Things  and  Cyber
Security including Block Chain Technology)
 Computer     Science     and     Engineering     with     Specialization     in
## Bioinformatics
 Computer  Science  and  Engineering  with  Specialization in  Information
## Security
 Computer   Science   and   Engineering   with   Specialization   in   Cloud
## Computing
 Computer  Science  and  Engineering  with  Specialization  in  Big  Data
## Analytics


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 60

 Computer  Science  and  Engineering  with  Specialization  in  Block  Chain
## Technology
 Computer Science and Engineering with Specialization in Data Science
 Computer Science and Engineering with Specialization in IoT
 Computer  Science  and  Engineering  with  Specialization  in  Computer
networking
 Computer   Science   and   Engineering   with   Specialization in   Cyber
## Security
 Computer  Science  and  Engineering  with  Specialization  in  Information
## Technology
 Computer  Science  and  Engineering  with  Specialization  in  Gaming
## Technology
##  Information Technology
 Information and Communication Technology
##  Information Engineering
 Information Science and Engineering
 Information Science and Technology
 Information Technology and Engineering
 Data Science/Applied Data Science
 Animation and Gamification
 Any other as approved by AICTE as per AICTE Gazette notification 28
April,2017 and its amendment

- Electronics and  Communication Engineering  Allied  Departments/
Cluster (Corresponding  Program(s)  of  Engineering/Technology)-
Major programs:
##  Electronic Engineering
 Digital Techniques for Design & Planning
 Electronics and Power
 Electronics and Control Systems
 Electronics and Electrical Engineering,
 Electronic Science and Engineering,
##  Electronics, Electronics & Computer Science,
 Electronics and Computer Engineering,
 Electronics and Power Engineering,
##  Electronics Design Technology,
##  Electronics Engineering,
##  Electronics System Engineering,
 Optics and Optoelectronics,
##  Power Electronics,
##  Power Electronics Engineering,


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 61

 Radio Physics and Electronics
 Electronics and Communication Engineering
 Advanced Communication and Information System,
 Advanced Electronics and Communication Engineering,
 Applied Electronics and Communications,
##  Communication Engineering,
 Electronics & Communication Engineering (Industry Integrated),
##  Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering,
 Electronics and Communication Engineering (Microwaves),
 Electronics and Communication Engineering (Sandwich),
 Electronics Communication and Instrumentation Engineering,
##  Telecommunication Engineering.
##  Instrumentation Engineering
##  Applied Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering,
 Automation and Robotics,
##  Automation Engineering,
##  Biomedical Instrumentation,
 Electronic Instrumentation and Control Engineering,
##  Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering,
 Electronics Instrumentation and Control Engineering
 Power Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
##  Instrument Technology
##  Instrumentation
##  Instrumentation & Control Engineering
##  Instrumentation & Electronics
##  Instrumentation Technology
 Robotics and Automation
##  Mechatronics Engineering
##  Mechatronics,
 Mechatronics Engineering (Sandwich)
##  Medical Electronics
##  Medical Electronics Engineering,
##  Medical Lab Technology,
 Electronics and Biomedical Engineering
##  IOT
##  AI
##  ML
##  Data Science
 Electronics and Instrumentation
##  Smart Electronics
 Embedded and Real Time system


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 62

##  Nano Electronics
##  Bio Electronics
 Nano-Bio Electronics
 VLSI Design
 Any other as approved by AICTE as per AICTE Gazette notification 28
April,2017 and its amendment

- Electrical Engineering Allied Departments/Cluster (Corresponding
Program (s) of Engineering / Technology)-Major programs:
##  Electrical Engineering
 Electrical and Computer Engineering,
 Electrical and Electronics (Power System)
 Electrical and Electronics Engineering,
 Electrical and Electronics Engineering (Sandwich),
 Electrical and Instrumentation Engineering
 Electrical and Mechanical Engineering,
 Electrical and Power Engineering,
 Electrical Engineering (Electronics & Power),
##  Electrical Engineering Industrial Control,
 Electrical Instrumentation and Control Engineering,
##  Electrical,
 Electronics and Power,
##  Electronics & Computer Science,
 Electronics and Electrical Engineering,
 Electronics and Power Engineering
##  Electric Vehicle
 Smart Grid and Energy system
##  Energy System Engineering
 Any other as approved by AICTE as per AICTE Gazette notification 28
April, 2017 and its amendment

-  Mechanical Engineering Allied Departments/Cluster
(Corresponding Programs (s) of Engineering / Technology)-Major
programs:
##  Mechanical Engineering
 Electrical and Mechanical Engineering
 Mechanical Engineering (industry integrated)
 Mechanical Engineering (Sandwich Pattern)
 Mechanical Engineering (Repair and Maintenance)
##  Power Engineering
##  Production Engineering


## NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION


## 63

##  Machine Engineering
##  Manufacturing Engineering
##  Manufacturing Engineering & Automation
 Manufacturing Engineering and Technology
##  Manufacturing Process & Automation Engineering
 Manufacturing Science and Engineering
##  Manufacturing Technology
##  Precision Manufacturing
 Production and Industrial Engineering
 Production Engineering (Sandwich)
 Tool engineering
##  Automobile Engineering
##  Automobile Maintenance Engineering
 Automotive technology
 Mechanical engineering (Auto)
##  Mechanical Engineering Automobile
##  Industrial Engineering
 Industrial and Production Engineering
 Industrial Engineering and Management
 Mechanical and Automation Engineering
##  Mechatronics
##  Mechatronics Engineering
##  Mechatronics Engineering (sandwich)
##  Robotics
##  Additive Manufacturing
##  Renewable Energy
 Mechanical Engineering (ENERGY SYSTEM AND MANAGEMENT)
 Automation and Robotics
 Any other as approved by AICTE as per AICTE Gazette notification 28
April,2017 and its amendment